<b> Project summary </b>

The overall research question forn this project is ‘how do the musical and non-musical characteristics of US Billboard 100-charting songs differ pre- and post-1991?’. This question is explored through four complementary charts. Each chart generated by the code in this repo contributes to this question as follows:
  -	Figure 1 visualizes the average values across a series of innate musical features for charting songs released before 1991, charting songs released post-1991, and non-charting songs. Figure 1 shows – non exhaustively - that post-1991 songs are on average more danceable, less valent (sadder) and more energetic than their pre-1991 counterparts.
  -	Figure 2 shows the frequency of within- and -between genre collaboration across the top 5 most-collaborative genres, and the proportion of these collaborations that took place pre- and post-1991. It shows that most collaborations have taken place post-1991, and that hip-hop and pop are by far the most collaborative genres.
  - Figure 3 illustrates the relative popularity ranking of the top 10 most popular genres in each decade, based on number and popularity of charting songs in each genre. Figure 3 demonstrates the rapid rise in popularity of both country and hip-hop during the 1980-2000s time period.
  - Figure 4 examines seasonal patterns: specifically, the proportion of charting songs released in each month, alongside their average popularity. Figure 4 shows similar patterns pre- and post-1991 with regards to both release density and monthly popularity.


<b> How to run the code </b>

All the code is contained in the 'Data visualisation R script.

To run the code, simply download the script, add it alongside and the source data (see below) to a single directory, then open the script in RStudio and press 'Source'. This will generate the four charts (saved as objects named 'Figure 1/2/3/4').

CSV source data can be found at https://marianaossilva.github.io/DSW2019/. The script expects this to be in a folder called 'Data' with subfolders for metadata, popularity and features, which the source data is already organised into. All other file paths are completely dynamic provided the script and the Data folders are located in the same working directory.
